# ISQA3420: Executive Summary

###**Overview**
____________________
Open source code frequently and freely enters the organization.  Open source saves our developers time and organization money, but with that source comes inherent risk. Source code contains vulnerabilities and license considerations that must be managed to ensure our development remains viable and secure. Failure to the address these issues leaves us vulnerable to license requirements that would force us to share vital development secrets with our competitors.  Weak code brought in from external source leaves our products subject to the same risk.

##**Implementation**
____________________
###Risk Logging
To manage this risk, a system has been developed to track and log risks and allow for managerial review and approval of all external source brought in by our developers. When our developers bring in external source, they will submit the package containing the source, along with standard naming (CPE) information, information on the project which it will be utilized in, and the intended use within that project. The system will submit the package to a FOSSology cheking utility and the National Vulnerability Database to retrive any known licenses and vulnerabilities.  The system will break the package down to the file level, generate hashes for each, and record those hashes along with the associated license, vulnerability score (CVE), and CPE into an internal database.

###Risk Assessment and Approval Process
The system will generate a risk assessment from the initial submittal which is sent to developer who submitted the original request and is logged into an integration management database. After reviewing the risk assessment, the developer may elect to submit that assessment for approval.  A viability report, including the CVE and license information, is generated by the system which is submitted to the project manager. The project manager reviews the viability report and uses the systems interface to generate a report back to the system with approved uses. Both the viability report and approval report are logged into the integration management database.  

##**Project Utilization and Closeout**
____________________
##Project Code Documentation
Upon completion of new project code files, developers will submit project code files to a process to which scans through the new project code files.  This process will identify the use of external code, both open source and proprietary code, and test whether it's use is consistent with previously approved uses logged in integration management database used in the risk assessment process.  If any source is found which does not match a previously approved use, another authorization request is generated to the project manager, which triggers the approval process outlined above.  New approval and viability information is generated by the project manager and logged into the integration database. 

##Licensing Obligations
Within the submittal process, if any external source is identified within the final project code when it is submitted, the system will scan the open source database for associated license information.  If licenses are discovered which require the organization to contribute derived code back to repositories where the code was retrieved from, the system will submit that code back to the original source repository, addressing our social responsibility to contribute back to the community.

##**Conclusion**
____________________
Our organization is benefiting from the use of external open source code by saving both time and money in development.  By leveraging the expertise and knowledge base of open source development communities, we are effictively importing increased talent and resources without having expanded our payrolls. With this benefit comes increased risk and the above outlined system mitigates this risk.  Multiple levels of review are put in place to ensure that we are tracking that risk, and that appropriate decision making is done by our management based upon the risks and responsibilities identified on open source code imported into our organization.  We are meeting our social responsibility to contribute back to the user community through automated processes.  Most importantly, we are identifying approved uses early in the projects life cycle ensuring, which is tracked, thereby effectively setting corporate policy and ensuring that use of external resources is consistent with that policy as it applies to the specific project at hand.  Full implementation of this system will prevent future costs and potential litigation issues that we are susceptible to if we use open source without any limitations.  



